and welcome back to a fresh episode of
business growth show I'm your host Sam
Dunning co-owner over at webchoiceuk.com
and if you haven't yet check out our
weekly email us where I share actionable
B2B marketing website SEO tips useful
goodies and more why not give it a shot
over at business growth dot email
so join me today I've got Jason Bradwell
Jason's a host of free to be better
podcast and he's the founder of B2B
better Jason welcome to the show sir how
are we not too bad Sam thanks for having
me how you going yeah no worries man
looking forward to this is the first uh
guest episode we've done in a while
whilst I've been moving house setting up
the studio faffing about waiting for
internet but I won't bore you with any
more because we're diving into a useful
topic we're going to talk about how the
audience can use podcasting as an
account based marketing ABM tool to
ultimately grow their pipeline grow
their leads grow their business
so that in mind
why the heck should a beat of your
consider podcasting as part of that ABM
and their General marketing strategy
yeah I mean look I think it's a little
bit cliche for a B2B marketer like
myself to be coming out and saying like
you should be launching a podcast it's a
really good idea you know because it
seems like every
every brand and their dog has a podcast
right now but I think it's for good
reason you know I think as a medium
um there are a lot of advantages that
come with producing a podcast
particularly if you're a marketer like
me that uh historically is like sold
into Enterprise accounts or selling an
Enterprise grade product
um you know one of the advantages is
that you know when it comes to an
Enterprise sale people buy from people
um and you know when it comes to signing
a check a six seven figure check you
want to know that the person on the
other side uh of giving you that check
know what they're talking about and a
podcast is a great medium to actually
put a voice put a face to the brand
right and to demonstrate your your
thought leadership as an individual
which in turn reflects uh back onto the
brand in the company I also think that
you know a lot of the companies that I
work with
um in my consultancy be to be better
they're really kind of kick-starting
their content marketing machine from
scratch right and often they think oh
well we should launch a Blog
but we don't have any Riders in-house
and we don't really have the budget to
go out there and buy like a big content
blogging research writing team
um so what can we do to get started you
know how can we get the most bang out of
our buck where we are choosing to make
that investment
and I feel like if you have a founder or
an executive that is able to articulate
a point of view
um
which they probably do every single day
when they're talking to customers or
talking to their staff or talking to
their partners and you can get them in
front of a microphone or a camera and
you can get them to express that point
of view
um then at the end of it you're going to
have a 30 60 Minute asset that can be
repurposed in a dozen or so different
ways it's a lot easier to take a video
asset and turn it into a blog post turn
it into an email newsletter turn it into
a piece of sales enablement collateral
than it is to go from a written post the
other way around at least in my
experience
and finally the third reason is and
we're going to talk about this a bit
today is the account based marketing
potential that comes with launching a
podcast
certainly for B2B better the business
and and other companies that I've worked
with and what worked for when I was an
in-house marketing director
um selling in an Enterprise you know
opening doors is a real tough Challenge
and if you can approach a potential
customer and you're coming from a place
of value add we want to get you onto our
podcast we want you to talk about
something that you're passionate about
we're going to give you exposure to our
audience and we're going to do that over
a 60 Minute interview
that's an easier way in my experience to
open a door than hey can we grab 30
minutes of your time for a cold pitch
right because you're coming at them from
a place of we want to give you something
and we're not expecting anything back in
return as a marketing team that's a
really powerful tool particularly if
you're selling it at Enterprise because
you know attribution is a big problem
and finding ways to demonstrate the
commercial success of a marketing team
within within a B2B business is tough
and if you can point back as a marketer
and say look we closed this deal and
that relationship started because we got
them onto the podcast or that
relationship was reignited because we
got them onto the podcast well that's a
way that you can prove your commercial
value to the organization so yeah lots
of different reasons there but that's
kind of where I'm thinking at it from
yeah yeah yeah I know I like the
framework and we're going to jump into a
bit of a how-to on any B2B so any B2B
organizations are perhaps tuning in and
wondering kind of what the best best
practices are when it comes to actually
setting one up and getting one going and
also making sure you've got the right
strategy behind it to ensure it drives
the results and outcomes that you want
so when I think ABM when I think account
based marketing Json what comes into my
mind is basically setting up a list of
let's say dream accounts maybe their
ideal client profiles within businesses
maybe you've got several stakeholders
within each business and then you spray
them up into segments maybe you've got
100 top accounts that you want to break
into perhaps they're in a certain
vertical perhaps they're in Texas or
funded Texas whatever and then you build
out a load of LinkedIn ads you serve
them to these target audience uh you try
and nurture them over time building
trust then eventually when they have the
problem that you fix that you hope that
they book a demo with your sales team so
that is the kind of generic ABM thought
that's in my mind now I'm I'm guessing
you're going to tell me kind of this
strategy is is completely different to
what's the
I mean I think you know the way that you
articulated an account based marketing
strategy there is you know pretty much
on the money right it starts from a
place of saying hey these are a bunch of
accounts that we want to win and we are
going to be investing and we're
dedicated to invest in a marketing and
sales strategy that is going to put us
in front of these accounts over a long
period of time with the ambition that
eventually they're going to convert into
close customers close one Revenue
and I think
wielding something like a podcast in
that strategy is a really great
mechanism to as I've already mentioned
kind of kick-start a relationship
accelerate a relationship or reignite a
relationship so from kickstarting a
relationship perspective as I mentioned
a moment ago
pick your top 10 customers that you want
to try and start a relationship with
invite them onto the podcast to uh talk
about a topic that they're passionate
about and look we're not trying to pull
the wool over anyone's eyes here you
know you need to actually do something
with that content you can't just say hey
we want to do a podcast with you speak
to them for an hour and then do a pitch
whilst you're speaking to them right
that's not what we're trying to do here
we are trying to co-collaborate on some
content it just so happens that we're
able to begin a relationship with a
prospect in a slightly different way
than we would do otherwise
the second thing I mentioned there is
accelerator relationships so maybe the
account based marketing strategy is
already underway and we're now just
looking for another touch Point another
another way to continue to engage or
re-engage that customer or that Target
we're serving them ads our sales team
has taken them out for lunch but again
we want to come to them with a with a
piece of value we want to continue to
nurture that relationship
if we have an audience as a brand let's
give that audience to our Prospect to
our Target and get them some exposure
that way and you know particularly when
you're selling into Enterprise and in
particular when you're selling into like
the c-suite or an executive level you
know a lot of these a lot of these
individuals are going to be either you
know well trained to take advantage of
public speaking opportunities and even
better probably have a vested interest
in taking public speaking opportunities
you know I've I've seen in my career
um clients where they were totally
against doing a conventional case study
or a press release
but when you invite them to come onto a
podcast and talk for an hour they can't
jump at it quick enough and it's because
again this is less about hey let's do a
press release which is about me and the
brand and why we're amazing at serving
you and it's now more about the shine
the light on you the customer or the
Target in this case and show you to the
world and and you know make everyone
realize what a genius you are
um and that can be a really powerful
tool to help getting clients over the
line or prospects over over the line who
otherwise won't engage with you
and then the third one as I said was you
know
reactivate or kind of you know re-engage
if if a if a contact has gone cold kind
of similar to the acceleration piece you
can use the podcast as a tool to try and
reignite that relationship and that
doesn't necessarily mean you're
reigniting it with the intention of hey
I want to close the deal with you it's
about reigniting it to figure out like
where in the funnel that Prospect
actually is right and you can do that by
recommencing the relationship through
something like a podcast nice yeah some
nice tips so
and you're exactly right I've literally
experience the exact same thing with our
company web Choice Jason like you ask
probably one out of ten clients if that
are happy to come on and do a video
testimonial even if you try and offer
them some goodies people just I don't
know why but I guess it's quite a big
ass like you say because it's it's all
about you rares
it is yeah it's literally like a selfish
ask but when you invite invite people to
podcasts it's amazing the response you
get right like I would say 99 of people
say yes well I think there's I think
there's a couple of things here like I
think when you're selling into
Enterprise accounts
you know asking someone to do a press
release or a video testimonial or a case
study it's almost like even that they in
my experience not that they don't want
to do it but it's just like the hassle
that's going to come with having to get
legal involved and you know are the
projects a little bit shaky at the
moment so we feel like you know we don't
want to give you the case study until
we've like solved issues X Y and Z like
there's just this friction there that we
need to overcome this before we can
actually do the case study or the press
release and it's almost just not worth
it right at that point
um but you know if you can get them onto
something like a podcast and through
some like strategic questioning kind of
start teasing out some of those things
that you were looking for from a video
testimonial I've had clients before say
to me when I was in my in-house role no
way we can ever do a press release no
way we can ever do a case study then you
get onto a podcast and they you know
they'll give you the video they'll give
you the testimonial almost like
inadvertently just by virtue of you
being together talking about this
subject and of course then you need to
go back and you need to make sure
they're happy with you to promote it and
give them the rounds of review and all
that kind of stuff but it's not it's not
going to work every single one it's not
going to work every single time but if
you are struggling a little bit to get
that traction with a customer why not
try this mechanism it could be a way
that to unlock
nice so with that in mind we might as
well jump into some of the strategy
because we've teased it how it can work
with inviting ideal prospects into the
podcast and also reigniting perhaps
relationships or deals in your pipeline
that might have stalled and also
creating content together to kind of
build up that starting Foundation build
up that trust and it's spark offer
potential sales Prospect
but let's take a step back
what are kind of the foundations that
you need in place from let's say an
MVP's point of view when it comes to I
don't know basic kit or basic things you
actually need from your own organization
whether that's your speaker and tools
and so what are some of the things I
suppose from an actual physical item or
software item mindset and also more of a
more of a mindset attitude as well
because I know not everyone
feels like they can host their own show
and sometimes if you're in a big
organization you might need to pick a
subject matter expert so be eager to
know your thoughts around those
foundational items absolutely I mean
you're spot on in saying that from a
mindset perspective your organization
needs to be behind the idea because you
know particularly right now with
marketing teams under increasing
scrutiny and ensuring that every dollar
going out of the door is delivering Roi
unless you're prepared to invest in
something like a podcast or a branded
show
for a significant period of time minimum
six months then you probably should be
looking at other channels if if kind of
short-term
directly attributable revenue is the
priority like right now
um and you've got to make a choice
between podcast and you know maybe ads
or podcast and event that we know always
delivers Roi for us then you should
probably stick with the things that that
you know right so from a mindset
perspective there needs to be an
understanding between the marketing team
and the leadership team that this is a
long-term play right this is something
that we're investing in and the effects
of which are going to compound over time
so you need minimum six months once
you've got that agreement you need to
understand like how you're going to
measure it so I think this is where a
lot of Brands fall over is they think oh
downloads is our metric right if we're
getting a huge number of downloads well
then you know we're being successful I
actually think when you dig into it a
little bit as a marketing team
what you'll often find is that 99.9 of
Brands aren't trying to be the Joe Rogan
of their industry right what they're
trying to do is they're trying to build
Pipeline and I think that's when you
start looking at it through this like
ABM lens
we want to invite prospective customers
onto our podcast well the metric of
success there should be things like what
are like guest pitch win ratio we've
sent out 100 invites we want to get 60
uh uh acceptance rate of those invites
we want 60 of the people we reached out
to
um to agree to come onto our podcast so
we can begin the relationship that way
um you want to look at things like
pipeline right going through gong
transcripts is the podcast being
mentioned when we're talking to our
Enterprise sales customers well great we
can then count that as influence Revenue
so measures metrics of success have a
real think about what that looks like
because often it's not going to be
downloads
once you've got that mindset once you've
got those metrics I'll just kind of
rattle through the things that I look at
when I'm talking with clients about
launching podcasts one is that you need
a premise or a Crux that's different to
what else is out there like particularly
if you're a martech or a sales Tech
provider there are a lot of podcasts as
you know Sam as I do right we're
competing against a lot of other B2B
marketing slash B2B sales podcasts and
if it's just going to be another
q a style interview based show with the
100 or so Marketing sales influences
that are on all the podcasts out there
then you're probably going to really
struggle to stand out so figure out what
your premise what's your what's the Crux
of the show that's going to be
differentiated and allow you to express
unique point of view
next thing is your host really important
um the host can make or break or show
um often you'll want it to be the CEO or
some other senior executive within the
organization
um and oftentimes that is the right
choice but if that CEO or executive
really doesn't want to get in front of
the microphone or really feels
uncomfortable with it then there are
other ways that you can get them
involved in the podcast but not have
them be the host right you could maybe
think of like a guest segment where once
a week or once an episode they come on
they share a little bit of insight about
what's happening in the organization but
it's being hosted by someone who feels
kind of more comfortable behind the mic
um next thing is guests and questions
again from an ABM standpoint if we're
going to use it in this way we want to
be really clear on like who do we
actually want to build relationships
with from an ABM perspective and
ensuring that we've got a good workflow
in place to invite them and then
maximize the chances of success of
having them agree to come onto the
podcast and then we also want to ensure
that the questions that we're asking
them are aligned with the premise or the
Crux that we've come up with at the top
right you know think about questions
that they're not being asked in other
places particularly if you're speaking
to
um
thought leaders that already have quite
a good profile quite a big brand profile
I did a podcast with April Dunford a few
months ago who for those listening if
you don't know she's the positioning
expert B2B Tech positioning expert and
it was the best performing podcast
episode I've ever done on B2B better
because I was asking her questions about
yes her process of positioning a B2B
company but we were approaching it from
uh how do you position a Services based
business versus a product based business
which I don't think is something she's
ever spoken about you know before in the
public domain so if if you're going to
ask if you have guests come on and
they're well known and they're speaking
all the place all over the place anyway
figure out what questions you can ask
them that are actually going to
differentiate that episode that
interview from all the other times that
they've been on cool and then we can
talk a little bit about production and
distribution and kind of iteration but I
want to take a break yeah let's let's
dive into some of those points let's
dissect what you've just laid out there
Jason so in terms of um there's a few
things firstly in terms of guests is
there like a strategy that you recommend
in terms of because we've had different
um different folks that run podcast
production agencies and such on in the
past and everyone's got their own take
on best practices to actually invite
prospects is there any top tips that you
recommend when it comes to actually
getting those dream clients to agree to
come on your show and not come across
cells or spam them with all the text
emails and just piss them off but
actually make them excited to go on your
show yeah absolutely I mean the first
thing I'd say is that if you're starting
out a podcast from scratch it's best to
start with the people that already know
you and they like you and they trust you
so maybe start with existing customers
right because what we're trying to do is
we're trying to build out a bit of a
portfolio of episodes of interviews that
we can take to guests or future guests
called and say look
we're not just like coming out of
nowhere and you're going to be the first
ever guest so this isn't going to be a
good use of your time like already we
have had some people come on these
episodes and you can see this is like in
operation it's not just starting from
scratch so start with the people that
are already in your network is the first
thing I'd say
um the second thing I'd say is that
every guest that you should that you
have on the on the podcast ask them for
referrals you know I'm thinking about
and this can be done like either on the
episode and recorded or it can be done
after the fact
um
but ask for referrals you know you and I
spoke about podcasting uh through an ABM
motion
who should I be speaking to next about
this who can offer me a different
perspective on this subject that you
know beyond what you've shared with me
today can you make an introduction
because those warm introductions those
warm referrals much like in kind of
winning new business are going to land a
lot easier
um than than going in cold and you can
automate that right so I've got a zapier
integration set up uh zapier workflow
set up where after I finish recording an
episode on Zoom an email is
automatically sent to that participant
saying thanks so much for coming on to
the episode today uh if I can ask one
more favor could you please just you
know recommend a few people that I
should be speaking to next to have onto
the podcast
um so it doesn't have to all be manual
it can be automated
um once you've got those initial
episodes if you've got that referral you
know if if
um the next thing that you could look at
is in terms of the actual kind of
invitation itself
if you're going in cold
keep it short
um
really articulate the value that's going
to be provided to the participant to the
interviewee either in terms of
you're going to be exposed to this many
people or we're going to really kind of
work this episode across our entire
content distribution strategy or
whatever
and
um just be okay if they say no right and
no doesn't mean no forever no May May
and often does just mean not now right
and you can include that in your email
like if now's not a right time can we
get back in touch in Q3 Q4 or whatever
and try again because as I say
most of the people in fact all the
people that I've pitched over the years
um if they haven't said yes immediately
it's never been a never it's just been a
not now
yeah yeah and I suppose depending on the
size of the organization you're going
after there might be other similar
decision makers that you could ask I.E
yeah if you tried the marketing director
you might be able to try the chief
marketing officer
head of marketing
director of demand gen Etc because they
all have similar inputs to certain
things it's like broadening your horizon
for who you can contact I guess
definitely and is that where that
referral thing comes in right like hey
I'm pitching the CMO if they say no okay
well is there anyone else in your
organization that you think could be you
know that would get a that would get
some value out of taking advantage of
this opportunity nice nice and is this
strategy Jason is it fully guest based
or is there any standpoint to run solo
episodes
I think there's definitely value in
doing solo episodes I mean I kind of
look at I see that kind of being like
four types of podcast
um when it comes to kind of like B2B
brand owned
I think one is very much like a q a
style interview based podcast which is
best suited to something like an ABM
strategy we're inviting people on who we
want to have a relationship with and the
light is 100 shining on them maybe we
get a bit of benefit from the halo
effect of being associated with them but
largely this is about them this isn't
about us
um
and how you want to measure those as
I've said is things like our guests
agreeing to appear on the podcast
um are we able to begin or accelerate or
reignite a relationship
um so yeah I'd call that like your ABM
podcast
you can definitely have a solo
um
kind of host owned podcast
um something I call like a profile
building podcast where it's really about
helping the host or kind of whoever's
you know hosting it
um
build out their own personal profile and
articulate a point of view right and I
think if you think about refined Labs
the marketing agency Chris Walker great
example of that right Chris has been
doing his podcast since 2019. it's just
him
um for the most part and he just hammers
the same message over and over and over
again and that's why he's now got 130
000 followers or something on LinkedIn
um the third type of podcast you can get
is what I call a company positioning
podcast so it's kind of like a ref on
your profile building podcast but it's
less about like the individual within
the organization showcasing their point
of view it's more about
the point of view of the organization
kind of portrayed through an individual
so like intercom do a really good
example of this
um I think their podcast is called
inside intercom It's usually the two
same people from the from from intercom
hosting it talking about a subject
that's kind of relevant to the product
or a trend of the day the last one was
about chat GPT and it's you know being
hosted by these two guys but they're
articulating the point of the view of
the organization they're not bringing on
guests it's it's just them
um
and in the final one and I don't see
this very often but I love the idea of
it is what I call the news ticker uh
um uh podcast where
there are so many bad trade Journal
organizations out there
um across so many different sectors and
I often think that a lot of brands
would benefit from trying to kind of own
a little bit of that trade reporting
relationship with the wider Market you
know let's say you're working in
I don't know let's say you're working in
um kind of like Enterprise Technology
Solutions for the media sector right so
you're working with a lot of different
media clients a lot of different
broadcasters rights owners right holders
um
you're in a really unique position where
because you're talking to so many
different types of clients from that
industry and you're building a lot of
bespoke solutions you've probably got
quite a unique view of like what's
happening in The Wider industry and you
could very well start a podcast which is
maybe on a daily basis just reporting on
the trends that are happening within the
industry lay it on with your view of
based on you know your work
um uh what that really means for the
industry at large
um and this could be daily it could be
five ten minutes there's one called
Daily Tech headlines I listen to that
kind of inspired this idea but yeah I
think a lot of BB organizations could uh
could benefit from like owning a little
bit more of that trade Journal
relationship with the wine market
that would be a good one for SEO right
now especially with all the uh crazy AI
overtake and no real clear road map of
what's happening in the search engine
result pages but I think if an organ
like you say if an organization has got
the resources to be one of the only
I like your term news ticker Styles in
their niche in their industry like they
could be miles ahead of any other
company especially if they run some paid
behind it and people see them as a
trusted source of information in their
space like that's big definitely and I
mean especially it's a good you know
it's a good place to start as well right
like if you're if you're an early stage
company you're a startup and you're
thinking about
uh we want to launch a podcast but like
we're still trying to refine our point
of view on the industry and maybe we're
a little bit hesitant a bit nervous to
like go out there and just be like
hammering a view home
um you could start very easily just by
like reporting on the industry right do
a 5-10 Minute Podcast every day here are
the top three stories that we saw here's
what we think they mean and you can use
that almost as a tool to start refining
your own point of view right but you're
giving people a reason every single day
to come back and hear you and your
Founders and engage with your brand and
you know be well informed on what's
happening in their industry and it's a
relatively low lift
um
yeah yeah yeah I want to hammer home as
well something you said earlier Jason
because I fell I fell into the Trap when
I started this podcast in fact I did a
post on LinkedIn about a couple days ago
you mentioned um when you start a
podcast you might be consumed with
metrics like going for Max downloads and
if you're Distributing onto YouTube
LinkedIn the audio channels you might be
worried about how many views it's
getting or how many people clicking
through to the site and like you said if
you're using it as a tool to actually
grow Pipeline and grow revenue for your
business
that doesn't matter a ton like yeah you
you will see a steady increase over time
if you promote it in the right places to
the Right audience but like you say if
you're doing it as a relationship
Builder or you're doing it to build solo
expertise in yourself or your company
brand then ultimately you want to focus
on the metrics that matter and that's
like say like new new prospects into the
pipeline and New Opportunities created
or people mentioning your brand and
sales calls or mentioning they had the
podcast and all that good stuff because
that's where I got focused
um where we went very very broad with
the show and as soon as we Niche down
and took a clear Direction with it like
the results that this podcast generated
just went up massively definitely uh
yeah because it's I think it's like it's
the same with like writing LinkedIn
posts it's you know you can you can
learn how to game the system right and
you can say well if engagement and
downloads and likes of the metric that
we want to be tracking success against
well then you just write a listicle
right you know here are the top AI tools
of the day that you should be following
and [__] now we've got like 5 000 likes
aren't we amazing but if none of it like
drops down onto the bottom line what
does it matter right maybe it doesn't
matter to you maybe that's what you want
to do you want to get like a load of
eyeballs on your stuff you don't really
care how that happens but you just want
the eyeballs well then maybe downloads
are the right well down eyeballs isn't
the right word like ears I guess
um earlobes exactly I want so many
earlobes
um but I think as I say speaking to
clients who are thinking about launching
their own branded B2B podcasts a lot
um they think they want to track
downloads but when you actually dig a
little bit and you actually have the
conversation of okay well longer term
why does downloads matter
is that really the metric we want to be
measuring this against you often find
it's not
um so if you are thinking about going
down this road just be very clear on
like what success looks like
nice
so we've talked a lot about the
foundationals
how do we
pick these strategies up pick up the
podcast that we've got running and how
do we then are we then meant to
distribute it further are we just
thinking okay great we're building Some
solid relationships if we're doing the
interview style process and then perhaps
a few months down the line we're
starting to get deals in the pipeline
and the sales team are mentioning the
podcast as a as a source for inquiry so
we're getting happy
um or perhaps we're doing our solo
thought leadership show and again we're
attracting some kind of audience we're
getting inquiries coming in because
we're showing our point of view we're
sharing our expertise
is that it or are we meant to put some
kind of paid distribution behind it and
Linkedin to further Target accounts and
start promoting the show to further
audiences or is there a play Beyond this
I mean I as I said earlier you know I
think a podcast or a video show is one
of the like most highly versatile
content assets that you can have at your
disposal
um they can honestly be repurposed in a
dozen or more different ways
um relatively easily
um I work with a lot of organizations
who are either kind of early stage
startup
um
or they are maybe Enterprise
organizations but they're investing in
marketing seriously for the first time
um because maybe historically they've
been more of a like sales driven go to
market strategy
and the commonality between these two
organizations is money is tight right
um you know they're not willing to or
they're not able just yet to go out
there and start spanking 20 grand a
month on on like paid ads
so in those situations
um and thinking about this through like
an Enterprise ABM strategy lens I think
you can go quite far with Organic you
know I think if you take a podcast
episode and you know you're interviewing
your Target customer someone that fits
your ICP
you can hand that asset once it's
produced to your sales team and say you
should send this to all of our list of
ICP targets and highlight sections a b
and c because they're going to be really
relevant based on what we've just had
with this interview
um
I think the power of like individual
profiles is immense and often
underutilized an individual is going to
be connected or the kind of the total
sum of connections of the individuals
within your organization are going to
have is going to be 10 times greater
than that of your brand account at any
given time people are seven times more
likely to engage with content posted by
people versus posted by the brand so if
you're taking a podcast episode and
you're cutting it into a dozen different
ways like little micro video clips give
them to your organization give them to
your people make it super easy right and
say we've just created this we want to
get it everywhere let's post it out
there across our personal channels yeah
um
I think also from a lead gen perspective
you can be a little bit strategic with
the questions that you're asking
um if you're interviewing 20 customers
of a similar type
obviously you want each interview to be
unique and individual but at the end of
the episode you can ask the same kind of
five questions like what's the future of
our industry what's the biggest
challenge our company is going to face
in the next 10 years
and then at the end of this 20 episode
season you can compile all those answers
into a piece of lead gen content we
spoke to 20 or so ctOS in the Enterprise
solution space Here's Where they think
the future of our industry is going
right so you can just it's highly
versatile you can do a lot of stuff with
a podcast with a video series
um but you have to put the time and the
energy into distribution because like
all content it's the piece of the puzzle
that most people just
don't really give that much attention to
and I'll tell you something I see a lot
Jason because I'm sure you're like me
you've been you get invited on podcasts
all the time in the B2B space and I find
you the hosts are amazing at helping you
easily promote the episode or they're
terrible but I've been on podcasts where
they literally wait and tell me where
the episode's live and then I'll just go
into their show and I'll say oh I was
live like a month ago great and then the
others are quite the opposite like
they'll ping me a message on LinkedIn or
an email and say thanks very much for
being on the show here's the artwork
here's like three to five media Clips
here's all the links easily able to get
it here's a Google drive with everything
here's some suggested posts we recommend
you put in the first comment on LinkedIn
I'm like this awesome this is so easy to
produce so making it nice and easy for
the guests that you actually invite on
your show it's like a superpower because
most people are busy most execs don't
have hours and hours to troll through
and find everything themselves so if you
present them that almost a promo Media
Kit like just make it easy for them to
share either themselves with their team
like you say it's going to save you a
lot of work and actually make them could
actually improve their experience with
you I couldn't agree more I could not
agree more
um I had a really good experience quite
recently
um with ramley John who hosts I think
it's called the marketing power-ups
podcast and exactly like you just
described there Sam you know once the
episode was live I got a great kind of
pack of assets that I could distribute
and I could rework and make it in my own
voice and everything but it was just a
really pleasant experience
um I would just extend to your point
like
if you if you know it's one thing
letting people know that the podcast
episode is live if you are going to host
a podcast where you're asking people to
give up their time
um to be interviewed and for whatever
reason there's a delay in getting the
episode out there that's fine but just
make sure you tell them because I've
been on podcast before where we've like
recorded in January and then it's June
and we haven't I haven't heard anything
and then I tool back through the Apple I
was like oh yeah I was on that podcast
like have I ever yeah it was the episode
of alive and then I started thinking
like wow was it really that bad they
chose not to publish it panicking
they've ditched it yeah so I'm messaging
them oh no we just got like a big
backlog we're still working our way
through and it's fine like no no problem
but you know if I'm a customer like that
lives the whole point of this exercise
is to leave a good taste in someone's
mouth right and that does the complete
opposite yeah nice so with that all said
I want to wrap this up Jason in terms of
taking these relationships that we're
building if we are going down there
inviting kind of Ideal client profiles
to the to the podcast
are there from your experience could you
do this I do this any recommended next
steps of actually
let's say encouraging them if we think
there is some business to be done to I
don't know take a next step with us do
we
do a great show help them promote it
follow all these practices that we
shared on the show and then hope they
reach out do we
give them a cool drop them an email a
month later a couple weeks later asking
if they've got any projects similar to
what we discussed do we discuss it
offline straight away from your
experience what is the best practice to
actually helping this along the way to
going from
a great conversation to a sales
opportunity
I mean I think in doing this in adopting
this strategy you know what you're
trying to do is one create a great piece
of content but two you're trying to
really figure out where this Prospect
May sit in the funnel
um again my background's working
predominantly in Enterprise so sale Long
sales Cycles anything from six months to
two or three years
and when I've run this strategy in in
previous
um roles that I've held in-house you
know what I and the host are trying to
do when we finish the interview is to
kind of figure out whereabouts in that
funnel
and how close are they to being open to
a commercial conversation what usually
happens is it's quite far away right
because these are Big Enterprise
accounts
but depending on where they're at we can
then determine like what are the next
steps right if they're demonstrating
High intent oh we didn't know about your
product but that looks great we should
definitely get a demo in great well then
we can put them into that kind of like
book a demo sequence
um if we speak to them and they're
clearly the good a good fit of a
customer but the intent isn't just there
then you know we want to set them up
into a sequence that's gonna
continue to kind of uh
uh highlight to them when the podcast is
being promoted
um and that we're sharing with them
relevant documentation or materials that
are going to help kind of move them
through the funnel and sometimes you get
you know you miss the mark and you
interview someone and you realize
actually on
on reflection they just aren't the right
kind of customer for us right now and so
we kind of need to kind of like Park
them for a bit take them off our tier
one target list and um you know try
again in another day or focus on another
customer and that's going to be a
different sequence of events after the
fact but I do think that you know once
you've established that personal
relationship
it's important to kind of try as much as
you can keep it personal right so the C
when I say sequence I don't mean
necessarily it's just like an automated
set of events that they go into but it's
like a sequence where you the host or
you the producer or whoever they've
built the relationship with is reaching
out at an appropriate Cadence with an
appropriate
um uh message yeah yeah we're not
jamming 100 emails down there for the
next hundred days after being a guest
the last thing you want to do is you
want someone the last thing you want is
someone to feel like they invited me
onto the podcast because they're trying
to sell me something and I think I
sometimes wear like this strategy that
we've talked about today
can be misinterpreted and I just want to
kind of like finish just by being really
clear this is not about pulling the wool
over someone's eyes and just doing the
cold pitch but we're just kind of
walking through another door like we're
asking them to come onto the podcast
rather than respond to a cold email this
is about co-creating a piece of valuable
content that provides them value and if
from that comes a good relationship It
ultimately leads to a sale then [__] yes
we've we've won right but we should not
be doing this we're adopting this
thinking like oh great I don't have to
send a cold email or do a cold call
anymore I can just invite them onto the
podcast that's not the way you want to
do it
um I think what we haven't discussed as
well is there's a lot of other benefits
to interviewing especially if they're
within your Niche like if you're
interviewing smart people like for not
in our case we're interviewing like B2B
marketers and similar you'll learn a ton
like if you're hosting the show yourself
and you're thinking about setting up a
show like literally over the last three
years or however long we've done this
show it's been like a university
education on steroids but free of charge
yeah anyone not only are we interviewing
ideal client profiles but in my case I'm
also interviewing people I want to learn
from so if I can get a free advice for
30 minutes I'll gladly take it thank you
definitely I've I've said before and I
think I've been recorded saying this
like B2B better the podcast was like is
like a university course where I've
chosen the subject and I've chosen the
teachers right
um so I think it's put on the other
thing I just quickly extend on that is
like from a customer research standpoint
sometimes it's hard for marketers to
like to talk to the customer right we
kind of like as marketers Bandy around
like oh talk to your customer and
everything will be great and clear it's
not always that easy you know if you're
working in Enterprise and you're selling
in a Fortune 500 ctOS
they are not going to [__] give you
half an hour of their time to answer
like what blogs do you read They're not
going to do it and your company's not
going to let them do that right the
sales person the account management
person they are not going to let you
know marketing Jason walk in and ask a
bunch of like you know high level
questions in the name of building out a
buyer persona it's just not going to
happen the podcast
it gives you a mechanism to start doing
some like customer research is it ideal
is it how we would want to do customer
research no but it's getting us into a
room with a with a customer or a
prospect and again through strategic
questioning we can start you know
teasing out some of those insights that
can at least give us an indication of
where we should be you know guiding our
strategy Legend Jason very much enjoy
the conversation thanks for sharing your
expertise and all things B2B podcasting
with that please do share more about how
everyone tuning in can learn from you
connect with you in any way you want to
send the audience I appreciate Sam yeah
it's been a really good conversation I
feel like we could have kept going for
another hour to be honest
um oh it's always the way isn't it
um so uh yeah you can learn more about
uh my strategic marketing advisory firm
be to be better by visiting www.bw Dash
better.com I also have a podcast by the
same name called B2B better search for
it in any podcast directory and you will
find me it's got the big yellow
um cover art and yeah if you're thinking
about
um you know launching your inpodcast or
you are looking just to talk to someone
who's kind of done it for himself and
also for B2B Brands
um I just want to kind of get some get
some tips and tricks we haven't shared
today uh just hit me up on LinkedIn
Jason Bradwell be more than happy to sit
down and uh chat it through with you
top man and we'll put all of those links
on the show notes over at businessgrowth
dot marketing
cheers again Jason as always if you
enjoyed Today's show a quick rating or
review wherever the heck you listen to
your podcast from Apple or Spotify it's
appreciate it or subscribe on YouTube
goes a long way and with that we'll
catch you on the next one for more no BS
actionable marketing tips to grow your
business and grow your Revenue cheers
catch you soon